MongoDB 6.0 User Guide (#628)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/mongodb/mongodb-connector-6-0-studio.adoc

> = MongoDB Studio Configuration - Mule 4

Reviewer: HERE

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

MongoDB Connector Version 6.0

> To configure a connector in Anypoint Studio follow this process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a connector in Anypoint Studio, follow this process:
```

> . Install the connector.

Reviewer: Should we add "...connector using Exchange or Studio"?

Author: Leaving as is for now. In our revised template (in the works), we will show just one way to install, so this will become moot.

. Configure an input source for the connector.
. Configure the connector.

== Install the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange *(X)* icon in the upper left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for `MongoDB`.

> . Select the MongoDB Connector and click *Add to project*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the Anypoint Connector for MongoDB name and click *Add to project*.
```

Author: Changed to *MongoDB Connector* to match the GUI.

. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

== Install the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.

> . In the Mule Palette, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
```

. In *Add Modules to Project*, type the name of the connector in the search field.
. Click the MongoDB Connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

> == Configure an Input Source for the Connector

Reviewer 2: Sometimes we say Source or Listener or Trigger but we must always use the same word for it. It applies for the entire platform

Author: This is an issue. We are now saying input source for Studio and trigger for Flow Designer. Flow Designer uses the term trigger. We relate the two terms in the Flow Designer topic. I will check to see if there are instances where these terms and listener are not used correctly.

> Configure an input source for the connector such as the Object Listener operation, HTTP Listener, or Scheduler. The Object Listener operation invoke your application when MongoDB has a new object in a specified collection.

Reviewer 2: The Object Listener will poll the given MongoDB collection searching for new documents that apply to the filter

> Configure an input source for the connector such as the Object Listener operation, HTTP Listener, or Scheduler. The Object Listener operation invoke your application when MongoDB has a new object in a specified collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure an input source for the connector, such as the Object Listener operation, HTTP Listener, or Scheduler. The Object Listener operation invokes your application when MongoDB has a new object in a specified collection.
```

To configure an input source, drag it to the *Source* area of the Studio canvas.

== Configure the Connector

. On the *Global Elements* tab, click *Create*.
. Expand *Connector Configuration* and search for `MongoDB config`.
. Click *OK*.
. Enter a value for the following properties:
* *Servers (host:port)*
+

> Comma-separated list of host:port instances. The default value is `localhost:27017`.

Reviewer 2: this is not accurate, it doesn't match with the ui exposed by the connector @dariohvega

Author: @dariovega, what should I put here?

> Comma-separated list of host:port instances. The default value is `localhost:27017`.

Reviewer: Just for punctuation parallelism...:
```suggestion
Comma-separated list of host:port instances (default `localhost:27017`)
```

+
* *Database*
+
Database that sends and retrieves data from the MongoDB instance
+
* *Username*
+
Username to access the MongoDB instance
+
* *Password*
+
Corresponding password
+

> . In the *Connection* section, select the *Advanced* tab to adjust the values for the *Connection timeout*, *Socket timeout*, and *Maximum connection idle time* field.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove timeout section, it's not required for this example and adds complexity

> . In the *Connection* section, select the *Advanced* tab to adjust the values for the *Connection timeout*, *Socket timeout*, and *Maximum connection idle time* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Connection* section, select the *Advanced* tab to adjust the values for the *Connection timeout*, *Socket timeout*, and *Maximum connection idle time* fields.
```

+
The default value for the *Connect timeout* field is 30000 milliseconds (30 seconds). Any connection requests that take longer than 30 seconds to send and receive throw an exception.
+
If you set the *Connection timeout* field to 0, MongoDB Connector waits indefinitely until a request is successfully sent and a response successfully received.
+

> . In the *Collection metadata samples* field, optionally specify existing collections from which to take the metadata structure.

Reviewer 2: remove it, it's not part of the new connector

> It is recommended that you use the MongoDB configuration with Spring property placeholders for the *Connection* field values when you plan to deploy your application to CloudHub or to a Mule runtime. However, you can hard code your connection credentials in the global element properties if you are in the development stage and want to speed up the development process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the MongoDB configuration with Spring property placeholders for the *Connection* field values when you plan to deploy your application to CloudHub or to Mule runtime engine. You can hard code your connection credentials in the global element properties if you are in the development stage and want to accelerate the development process.
```

> === Global Configuration with SSL (Optional)

Reviewer: Because this is a solitary subtopic of Configure the Connector, and very short, I wonder if we should not just merge it into its container topic. Or should it be promoted to be a peer of Configure the Connector?

> MongoDB Connector v6.0.0 and later supports the use of SSL, if your MongoDB instance supports it. To set up the global configuration for SSL, select the `TLS context` property in the Security tab in your MongoDB connection.

Reviewer: If TLS context is a GUI label (?), shouldn't it be formatted in bold rather than syntax font?

> == Logging

Reviewer 2: this must be part of user manual. But I don't think it should be here

> == Logging

Reviewer: Is this the best title? The text is really just a reference of logger names.

== Install the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type the name of the connector in the search field.
. Click the MongoDB Connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

== Configure an Input Source for the Connector

Configure an input source for the connector such as the Object Listener operation, HTTP Listener, or Scheduler. The Object Listener operation invoke your application when MongoDB has a new object in a specified collection.

To configure an input source, drag it to the *Source* area of the Studio canvas.

== Configure the Connector

. Click the operation.
. Click the green plus sign to the right of the *Connector Configuration* field.
. In the *Connection* field, select the connection type.
. Enter a value for the following properties:
* *Servers*
+
`host:port` comma-separated list (in case you have a replica set). The default value is `localhost:27017`.
+
* *Username*
+
Username to access the MongoDB instance
+
* *Password*
+
Corresponding password
+
* *Database*
+
Database that sends and retrieves data from your MongoDB instance

> *Reviewers, is the database a MongoDB database or another kind of database?*

Reviewer 3: It is a MongoDB database

+
. Select the *Connection* tab to adjust the values for the *Connections per host*, *Max wait time*, *Socket timeout*, and *Pooling Settings* properties, which apply to requests sent to MongoDB.
+
The default value for *Connect Timeout* is 30000 milliseconds (30 seconds). Any connection requests that take longer than 30 seconds to send and receive throw an exception. You can override this behavior by setting their values to 0, meaning that the MongoDB connector waits indefinitely until a request is successfully sent and a response is received.

> *Reviewers, which specific fields do you need to set to 0 to have MongoDB wait indefinitely?*

Reviewer 3: The field is Connection Timeout

+

> . In the *Enable Metadata* field, optionally specify or disable metadata for collections, documents, and files. Metadata is enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: this is old, it's not present on the new connector

. In the *Collection metadata samples* field, optionally specify existing collections from which to take the metadata structure.

The MongoDB configuration with Spring property placeholders for the *Connection* field values is the recommended approach when you plan to deploy your application to CloudHub or to a Mule runtime. However, you can hard code your connection credentials in the Global Element Properties if you are in the development stage and want to speed up the development process.

=== Global Configuration with SSL (Optional)

> MongoDB Connector v6.0.0 and later supports the use of SSL, if your instance supports it. To set up the global configuration for SSL, select the `TLS context` property in the *Security* tab in your MongoDB connection. *Reviewers, what does it mean "if your instance supports it." Does this mean if your MongoDB instance supports it?*

Reviewer 3: Yes, the MongoDB instance must support it
